The Flooding of Galleaya and Caerne

Through the valley of Ohm, in the lee of the Serrates, two rivers fed from the glaciers that hung like tapestries from the wind-scoured peaks far above once formed the boarder between two great kingdoms.

The river Goen ran first West through the lands of king Galleaya before curving in a great arc Sounth to the confluence. 
As if reflected in a mirror, the river Nuun falls from the Eastern peaks feeding the cotton fields of the great weavers of Caerne before turning South to join its sister river to form the Great River Ohm.

Where the two rivers became one, on either side of the Confluence, two cities were built in opposition and competition.
King galleaya built of black stone and obsidian the city Divyagoen. The hard, unyielding stones worked by expert hands into delicate, arching pillars, formed temples of light from shadow.
Across from the land of the Stone Masters, the bright-eyed king Caerne built the city of Nuunslight from the purest white marble. The plain, broadfaced buildings brought to life by tapestries of such rich colour that their reflection upon the gentle surface of the confluence made the water shimmer in every-changing pearlescence.

For three generations, ships from the furthest reaches flocked up the River Ohm with the spring runoff, trading for textiles from Caerne and metals from Galleaya, before returning to the sea before the river ran low through summer.

The two kingdoms always in opposiion, lived in peace, fighting with the reputations of their craftsman and the radiance of their great works.

One year, during the rule of the forth of the line of Galleaya and the fifth heir of Caerne, a short fall saw the early arrival of winter storms the likes of which had never been seen. For four months, day and night, while cold rain fell on the cities at the mouth of the river Ohm, snow fell in great sheets over the peaks of the Serrates.

At middwinter, when the nights are darkest and the days quiet, the air trembled with a constant thunder, a cacophany of sound that shook the ground along the rivers Goen and Nuun as avalanches scoured every tree and filled every crag around the great mountain range.

Late one night, king Galleaya the fourth, arriving unannounded, found king Cearne the fifth restless on his throne. He recognized in the eyes of his rival a premonition. Come spring, when the endless fields of snow began to melt, the whole of the valley from the Serrates to the Sea would be consumed by the three rivers.

Mourning the loss of all they and their forefathers has built, the two kings sent out messagers to plead with any nation with ships fit to sail to send empty ships up the river Ohm. As messengers sailed South so they trekked North along the rivers Nuun and Goen telling the people to gather what they could and board ships at Divyagoen and Nuunslight.

Their plees heeded, two month later the river Ohm and every part of the Confluence held a ship. Ships of all makes, flying colours the world over, sat low in the waters, ladden with supplies and the peoples of two kingdoms.

The Great Flood began at the first hint of spring, the rivers Nuun and Goen breaking their banks to devour the countryside, taking with their running the souls of hundreds who could not make the journey in time. But many thousands more, on board innumerable ships, rose as the rivers swelled, rose further still when the might river Ohm broke her banks and consumed all the land to the sea. The rivers rose still further, consuming the whole of the valley and the land beyond, until all that remained within the new ocean spead from horizon to horizon were the highest peaks of the once mighty Serrates.

For months the waters raged, carrying away the remains of two kingdoms. The vast fleet of ships, carrying the soul survivors off all that could be seen under the sun, despite having not travelled a mile down the Ohm, found themselves in the Sea, knowing not where to go.

The ships, captained from all different lands, turned each in different directions, but looked first to king of the once-lands of Galleaya. Aboard a warship, surrounded by ships carrying the army of Galleaya, the king was overwhelmed by anguish and anger. Issueing no command, he commanded his ship to head West, leaving the remains of his dead kingdom to follow their king. But the captains, bound each by their own loyalties, turned their prows to home. In this middle of a new sea, a new ocea, empty and calm, suddenly there was chaos, as each ship became an obstacle moving unpredictably. Sudden winds or surges in current drove ships together with great crashes, sinking in the waters above the grave of their old lands.

The most skilled captains steered through the madness, their men working rope and wheel raw to avoid the malestrom of dangers in the surrounding waters. Those who survived told the stories of that sailing, and those stories were passed down through the generations, as the most harrowing sea ever to be sailed. More dangerouns that narrow, rocky ports in tempest winds.

Meanwhile, in the midsts of a fleet still largely divided in two, despite the river that once formed a boarder no more than a memory, the king of the sunked lands of Caerne, fifth of this line, succumed not to anger, but sadness and loss. As the waters churned with the calamity and disorder of ships running maddly in all directions, the king, unable to stomach any more loss, send out a message, flagging desperates to all the ships he could see. It said simply: Together. The message relayed, to stay together, to gather, to remain as one. Many captains, despite their loyalties, remained instead loyal to the people of the valley of Ohm, whom they had some to help. 

King Caerne directed the fleet to sail East, paying less mind to the direction as to the way they would travel, as one. As the fleet sailed, though they were beset upon from all angles by obstacles and threats from ships carving their own desperate path through their numbers, the king signalled to form a river, and in one mind the fleet parted, formed an opening for the ships to sail on their way. They travelled in this way, as one with no form and only vague direction, for days upon days, until the movements of the fleet were one and no obstacles remained. 

After months at sea, discovering that no map they had matched any land they came across, the fleet of the king of Caerne arrived at the new edge of the Marguul Empire. Recognizing the skilled work of the great weavers of Caerne in the repair of their many sails, they were welcomed as refuges to a new land. A new country was formed of traditions old and new, on the edges of the Morguul Empire.

The history books have no mention of a new kingdom of Galleaya. Tales of ships, ragged and starved, arriving suddenly and violently to port cities lining the Western lands, from Calls Normen to Sutrasara were told by traders and sailers for a generation. The stories were forgotten and it is said only that the master of stone of the valley of Ohm were lost in the Flooding of Galleaya and Caerne.