Virtue Guides the Fleet

If virtue is that habituated patterning of thoughts, beliefs, and actions that guides behaviour in moments of some moral consequence, what then is vice?

Perhaps it is the very same, but misdirected, misaligned with what we take to be the desirous and lauded course of action or way of being.

Is it the direction, that which aims, and the identification of the goal or target, mostly, that allows in the first place for the human mechanism and machination to befit the title of virtue?

Accepting this, it is no expansive golf between the virtuous and the vicious. Indeed, to their core they may be the same. Identical machines, identical beings, just following a different star. Aiming one to what's worthy the other elsewhere. A tilt of the wheel, an errant wind, some slight defect of hull that sends the vicious upon their path. 

Are we, then, each of us, equally proficient captains of our vessels? Separated only by our wit, our perchance for navigation? Or are some of us not masters of the helm but merely untrained generals, commanders giving orders in ignorance or arrogance, followed as best they can be by otherwise proficient deck hands?

Can one be a proficient, laudable, yet vicious commander or master of the helm? Orders clear, followed to the letter. Every turn of the wheel a harmony of expertise? The prow always placed just so upon the crest and swell? Yet put to task toward a one of many paths other than the virtuous?

The harmony and mastering of the ship of the self, of one's life, perhaps, is impossible without the proper direction. Regardless of the crew, the precision with which the vessel is maneuvered, it cannot cast itself upon the shore and sail upon the desert dunes.

Disaster, consequence, the dramatic revealing of a wrong turn casting ship and crew upon the rocks, perhaps never arrives. What if the vicious, misdirected vessel sails a vast, empty ocean? Their vessel proficiently carving paths upon a sea devoid of consequence? Never learning that their habits draw them always more starboard, drawing them in endless circles.

If so, what of the virtuous? Where are they within the empty ocean? What path do they track? Set upon the proper destination, the proper goals and aims, do they sail a straight line to some distant, ever more distant port? There is, of course, no goal of the virtuous that can be reached. It is in the travelling that life unfurls. The journey always longer still that the time allowed to complete it. Why does it matter, then, that the vicious travel unwitting circles where the virtuous draw straight lines?

I think, with much hesitation, that the answer cannot be found in our own ships, our own crew, but the world beyond the prow. The ocean upon which we sail is shared. We are, all of us, ships upon the same waters. Not lone ships travelling uncharted waters, but one of a fleet, a vast armada. 

A virtuous ship travels in predictable, trustworthy patterns, in concerted ways, wary of the other ships. As such, nearby ships navigate with some confidence, assured that if the wind swells or the waters grow turbulent, the virtuous ship will navigate this way or that, adjusting its course to avoid conflict with other vessels. Perhaps even accommodating for those ships that may have been caught unaware or unprepared, succumbing to the whims of the storm. The path of the virtuous ship ever changing course, following and matching the needs of the fleet.

The vicious ship, with perhaps precision and excellence, navigates with ease through the waters regardless of the turn of the wind or torment of the waves. But always, they follow their own path, seeking their own goal. To the surrounding fleet, the vicious ships navigation may be masterful, but always a boon, remaining always an obstacle on an otherwise open sea. If one ship does not move with the fleet, the fleet cannot move as one, and has in place of an ally, an obstacle.

Perhaps, then, when it comes to aims and goals, the directing that separates the virtuous from the vicious, the difference is not in the content but the context. The virtuous have as part of their goal the harmony of all those who must also share the ocean, the ports, the winds. The vicious navigate always a path through an ocean busy with obstacles instead of allies in an otherwise empty sea.

For all our study then, learning and mastering command of our own vessels, our coarse will be every vicious lest we learn to see and consider the world beyond our gunwales. Virtuous are the aims that guide not ships, but fleets.